# Protobuf definitions

This repository contains the definitions for the protobuf messages that will be shared across the clients and the server. This repository is imported as a Git submodule on each client and server in order to use the exact same version on all apps.

## Message structure

### Messages

- **Metadata**:  
  Contains basic information about a request, such as a unique ID and creation timestamp. This helps track and identify requests.

- **HashRequest**:  
  Used to ask the server to hash some input. It includes the crypto-profile to use, the input to be hashed and a RequestMetadata.

- **HashResponse**:  
  Contains the resulting hash value, the used hash algorithm and Metadata about the hashing process.

- **SignRequest**:  
  Used to request a digital signature for a certificate signing request (CSR). It includes the crypto-profile, CSR data, signing key, validity period offsets, CA certificate, and Metadata. Optionally, a subject and a CRL distribution point URL can be added.

- **SignResponse**:  
  Contains the signed certificate generated by the server and the metadata.

### Functions

- **Hash**:  
  Takes a `HashRequest` and returns a `HashResponse`. This is used to generate a hash of the provided input using the hashing algorithm specified by the profile.

- **Sign**:  
  Takes a `SignRequest` and returns a `SignResponse`. This is used to sign a CSR based on the profile's settings and return the signed certificate.

## Protobuf as a submodule

To add this to your project as a submodule you can run this command from the repository where you want to add it. Please change the URL for this repository's URL and establish the subfolder where you want to save this inside your project.

```shell
git submodule add <https://path-to-this-repo> <sub/folder/protobuf>
```

To fetch the latest commit from this repository, you can just run:

```shell
git submodule update --init
```

This will fetch the latest changes. Moreover, VS Code provides already functionality to fetch the code if you go to the `Source Control` section of VS Code.
